---
sidebar_position: 6
---

# Analysis Datapoint
Analysis Datapoint is the representation of the analysis performed after isolation. A Datapoint is therefore ALWAYS linked to an [Analysis_Isolation](Analysis_Isolation.md). A datapoint contains all analysis results from a single instance and a single analysis. When a new analysis is done with the identical isolated DNA ([Analysis_Isolation](Analysis_Isolation.md)), a new DataPoint is made.

Most of the raw data of a datapoint is stored inside an object field. We maintain different structures inside of these object fields depending on the type of analysis done.

## Definitions

Because Data from different tests (FCM, PCR, qPCR etc.) have wildly different formats and requirements, it’s impossible/impractical to structure this properly for a relational database. Therefore, an unstructured approach is necessary: Object Fields!

Inside an object field, any structure can be used. This can be different per record. And although this sounds great from a storage perspective, how will you ever make a report out of this ‘ever’ changing structure?

To properly make use of object fields, some structure has to be predefined. However, this structure can be different for every type of analysis; exactly what we need.

For datapoints, we will make the distinction between 4 types of data:

1. Pre-Processed Data
2. Check Parameters
3. Processed Data
4. End result

## 1. Pre-Processed Data

‘Pre-Processed Data’ is referring to data that is not/partially processed. In our case, this means data that is generated by a machine/software that has not been scored according to check parameters.

## 2. Check Parameters

The ‘pre-processed’ data is usually processed according to certain parameters. It would be useful to have the parameters used to process the data, saved in the system as well. There might be a better place than Datapoints itself (from a data duplication standpoint), but having it in the datapoint is very consistent across all types of analyses.

## 3. Processed Data

‘Processed Data’ is data that has been processed, adjusted and interpreted by a human or process with the help of the ‘Check Parameters’.

## 4. End result

Most of our tests have a clear conclusion after processing the data: ‘Positive’, ‘Negative’, ‘Diploid’, ‘6 pg’, ‘True’ etc. This will be the result that will be used in a final report. This result is stored in a text field called 'End result'.

---

## Data structures
In order to store the different kinds of data, a data structure has to be defined. When this data structure is always used, automated data aggregations can be made.

### Pre-Processed Data

#### qPCR

Collection of objects with the keys:
- Fluophor [Alpha?]
- RFU [Real]
- Ct (of Cq?) [Real]
- S-Curve [Boolean]

#### FCM

Object ‘FCM’ with a Collection of objects with the keys:
- Mean
- Count
- CV

Maybe change ‘FCM’ with the parameter that is used (‘FL1’)? Will be less consistent but may be better for the added information.

#### PCR

Collection of objects with the keys:

### Processed Data

#### FCM

Percentage of count in ploidy
- C1
- C2
- C3
- Etc.

## Examples

### FCM

#### Pre-Processed FCM data:

```json
{
  “FCM”: [
    {
      “mean”: 12,
      “count”: 375,
      “cv”: 0.06
    },
    {
      “mean”: 24,
      “count”: 245,
      “cv”: 0.09
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Check Parameters FCM Ploidy Data:
The minimum and maximum values of scoring whether a peak is haploid, diploid, etc.
```json
{
	“C1”: [2.5, 7.5],
	“C2”: [7.5, 12.75],
	“C3”: [12.75, 17],
	“C4”: [17, 24],
	“C6”: [17, 24],
	“C8”: [34, 48],
	“C12”: [48, 64],
	“C16”: [64, 96],
	“C24”: [96, 128],
	“C32”: [128, 192],
	“C48”: [192, 256],
	“C64”: [256, 512],
	“C128”: [512, 700]
}
```

#### Processed FCM Ploidy Data:
Percentages of count of the diploid, tetraploid, etc. peaks.

```json
{
  “C2”: 0.85,
  “C4”: 0.15
}
```

#### Check Parameters FCM DNA-Amount
parameters used to dermine DNA_Amount of a sample compared to the internal control.
```json
{

“DNA-Amount”:
	{
		“Range”: [180, 220],
		“Forbidden_RM”: [[0.498, 0.562], [0.970, 1.030], [1.940, 2.060], [3.880, 4.120]],
		“Reference_Factor”: 1.060,
		“PL_Min”: 1.350,
		“PL_Max”: 1.450,
		“Count_Limits”: {“Minimum_Perc”: 2, “Minimum”: 30}
	}
}
```

#### Processed Data FCM DNA-Amount

[Needs to be defined]

---

### qPCR

#### qPCR Pre-Processed data
```json
{
	“Cy5”:
		[
		“Ct”: 24,
		“Sample”: “2301001-001”
		“Well”: “A01”
		“Target”: “”
		“Content”: “Unkn”,
		“SQ”: “”
		],
	“HEX”:
	[
		“Ct”: 21,
		“Sample”: “2301001-001”
		“Well”: “A01”
		“Target”: “”
		“Content”: “Unkn”,
		“SQ”: “”
	],
	“File Name”: “28-058-02.pcrd”,
	“Created By User”: “admin”,
	“Notes”: “”,
	“ID”: “”,
	“Run started”: “02/27/2023 13:29:47 UTC”,
	“Run Ended”: “02/27/2023 14:56:42 UTC”,
	“Sample Vol”: 6,
	“Lid Temp”: 105,
	“Protocol File Name”: “RT-qPCR 60(15)-15-40x.prcl”,
	“Plate Setup File Name”: “QuickPlate_96 wells_All Channels.pltd”,
	“Base Serial Number”: “CT016622”,
	“Optical Head Serial Number”: “785BR12305”,
	“CFX Maestro Version”: “4.1.2433.1219.”
}
```